nurse. Yeah, they were married and she had, I think
she was about maybe two months pregnant, but this
was not known. I didn't know it when he told me. I was
shocked. I was shocked. I didn't know. I was
surprised. And so was Bob Neal. And it so happens
that old PTAC And he was one of the 16 that
volunteered to stay over those extra 10 days. And
he was killed. Oh, I see. He was killed. And it was
either 16 of us for 10 days or 10 of us for 16 days. I
forget which. At any rate, he was one of the eight
pilots I told you originally about that was killed
in combat, actually killed in the entire AVG
history. Anyway, she was pregnant, and they sort
of wanted us to look after her. Well, Red sort of
took care of me in a hospital, you know, and bathed
me when I was, you know, had come back and shot down
and all that. So I had developed a close rapport
with her. And my first reaction, of course, to Bob
Neal, too, was the rapport with her. We just loved
those nurses. And, you know, there were only two
females with her. And... We said, sure. But I said,
you know, we don't know how we're going to get home.
We're going down to India. And I told him I'm going
to try my best to pull strings in the 10th Air Force
Headquarters of New Delhi to get air
transportation back home. I don't know. I'm not
even going home on a slow boat. I'm not afraid about
submarines, but I just don't want to do that. So he
said, yeah. So he told Red. And we three had come in
then, got on an airplane, provided by the old man.
got us to CNAC, Chinese National Airways
Corporation, which was really the Chinese
airline. And he was boss of that, too. So that got us
to Calcutta. So Calcutta, we were on our own from
then on. And we three stayed together all the way
home. To make a long story short- How'd you get
home? I knew General Caldwell, Colonel Caldwell
at that time. And Colonel,
I had to refer to my diary notes,
he later became a four-star general in the Air
Force and personnel. And General
Nagel, who was commander, brigadier general in
the United States Army Air Corps, 10th Air Force
with headquarters in New Delhi. General Peabody,
General Peabody. I knew all of these guys from
Langley Field, the early current. They knew me.
And of course, word got back, you know, word from
the heroes. They followed very closely.
I figured I'd call and work through Charlie
Caldwell first, and I told him what the story was,
and God bless him, he was just... He was
tremendous. I think he was in the operations
section. Let's
correct this. General Naiden, N-A-I-D-E-N, was
the commander of the 10th Air Force. General
Peabody is the guy that sent me to Russia later on.
But General Naiden was the commander in charge of
Caldwell. So I explained to him, and I used red.
Petak's condition is one of the reasons I said, I
explained she's pregnant, and I said, quite
frankly, I said, if you'd get her home on an
airplane by ATC Air Transportation Command,
which was under the United States Air Force,
really took over Pan Am and all the airlines, you
know what I mean. I said, really, just get her home.
That's all right. Then Bob and I, if you can't get us
on, well, okay, we'll go by ship or something.
Well, he said, oh, no, no. I said, I'll tell you
what, let me do some talking, and I'll call you
back. The next day he called back and said, say, you
come on up here to New Delhi. So we got on a train up
New Delhi, and I introduced Red and Bob Neal to him,
and they took us to dinner, and we talked at length.
And this other gentleman, a great guy, I think of
his name in a minute.
Finally, they got me an audience for General
Nadin, the commander. And I went in personally and
by myself and told him the situation. He picked up
the telephone and called General Hap Arnold's
office in Washington, D.C. and explained the
situation to him. And I think it was General Cuter
or one of General Arnold's top aides who answered
the phone and said, we'll get back with you
tomorrow and give you the answer. And that
morning, General Layton called me in the office
and he handed me a wire and he said, He said, send him
a wire. He had a wire in his hand. Give Quadrant
Leader Charles R. Bond, Bob Neal, and Nurse Red
P-Tech of the American Flying Interior Group a
full accord and courtesy of the Air Transport
Command back to the United States. And from then
on, you know, no problem. So they flew you by? Yeah,
and we got on ATC airplanes, various types.
Actually, we flew in an old goonie bird from New
Delhi clear across India to Karachi. Karachi, we
flew across to Allahabad,
and Allahabad to Aden, Aden to Khartoum, Khartoum
to Tano,
What do you call it, not the same name now, what is
it? Gold Coast. Gold Coast. That's from the Gold
Coast to Trans-Pertuson, an old, the only
commercial version of the B-17 that ever built one
of them. TWA. But as I mentioned, we flew from there
to Natal, Natal then on this way back to Miami. Did
you have a stunt there? Well, that's on the way
over. Oh, okay. and back up to Miami.
No, we did. We landed sentinel with them. That's a
British air base at that time. And then when I got
back to Miami, of course, we told Red goodbye, and
Bob Neal and I went to New York, and Bob had ideas,
and did go with Penebroke. a forerunner of Pan Am,
eventually was taken over from Pan Am, Pan
American Grace, as a pilot with an old flying boat,
and he's Navy anyhow, and I was going to go to work
for TWA. But, what happened after that? He went
with Pan Am, I mean Pan Am, and flew with them a long
time, and then finally he quit, and went to back to
his old love, state of Washington, and he's now
running a little fishing resort and been up there
ever since on a little island in the sound right
north of Seattle. And living with his wife. So he
stayed with Pan Am for the rest of his career? No,
no, he resigned from Pan Am. He resigned after
about four or five years. Maybe six or eight years.
And Red Petak is currently married to a gentleman
who is running a,
some sort of fish wholesale business in, I think
it's Maryland, someplace in Maryland. And what
did you decide to do? Well, my objective was to get a
rate commission in the Air Force, and I didn't give
up. So, I... I went with Bob Neal up and talked to
Panagra people, and I wasn't too impressed with
those people, but I still wanted commission in the
Air Force. They wanted to go in commercial
airlines.
I wanted my regular commission, so I went down to
Dallas Civilian. Had plenty of money at that time.
I went down to Washington and walked into the
munition building and kept talking to people
until I got to General Hap Arnold's office and told
him who I was. And of course, the officers, the
major officers, they had certainly heard of
Flying Tigers, and a lot of them had heard of me. I
was one of the so-called heroes. And next thing I
know, I finally got to General Cuter's office.
K-U-T-E-R. He was a very good gentleman. He
suddenly became a four-star general. Very fine.
He was brilliant also. Got a half-armed
right-hand man. And I walked into his office and I
was, I was aggressive. I had one objective in mind
and I didn't waste any time. I didn't pull any
punches. And I said, I have come to see General
Arnold, first of all. I'm sure he bought and he knew
I was one. He's the one, by the way, who got us here.
He said, well, General Arnott is going to be busy
for a long time. I said, General Cuter, I know he's
very busy, but I came here to see him. If I can't see
him, then let's say so and I'll leave. He said, oh,
no, wait a minute. Don't get mad. I said, you came
here to see him, didn't you? I said, that's right.
He said, well, don't leave until you see him. I
said, well, I'm not going to wait all week. He said,
I think we can probably get an appointment in the
morning. I said, all right then, I'll wait until
tomorrow. I hope he shook hands, and I walked down.
Sure, if he called me 9 o'clock the next morning,
I'd call him at 10, something like that. And I came
down, and at the appropriate time, whenever it
was, General Kuehler took me in General Arnold's
office, and there he was sitting by his desk with
his blouse open the way he usually does. And
terrific man, terrific man. But I bet he had at
least... six or eight generals crowding around
him, standing at the desk. And it became fairly
obvious, very obvious in no short, in a very short
period of time, what all of the generals were
doing. And... What were they doing? I'll tell you.
I was, I'm going too slow for you, I know I'm
dragging you out, but I, I took hands with the
general, I said, told him where I was, and he says,
what can I do for you? I said, General Arnold, I want
a regular commission in the Air Force. I said,
that's all I want. I said, I'll go back to China
right now. I would have stayed in China, and I told
Tex Sanders I'd stay in China if you'd give me a
regular commission. I had a long talk with General
Berg. He said he'd take Congress and give me a
regular commission. I said, if anybody can give me
a regular commission, I believe you can. I said,
that's what I want. And then I'm back in the Air
Force. I love it. He said, well... He says, Burton
was right, that it will take an act of Congress, and
I just don't see how I can do it. But tell me, young
man, now tell me, what is it about the P-40 that you
guys love and did so well? And he changed the
conversation completely. And then he dominated
me from then on, you know. And he got me started, and
that's what all these journalists... They wanted
to hear it. General Arnold was in a very bad
political situation. He was being pushed by
Congress and everybody that his superior's ego
was such a fantastic airplane. He'd been shooting
everything out of the sky, you know. He'd just
eaten up American airplanes in the Philippines.
You know, Pearl Harbor, fantastic airplane. And
here, the Flying Tigers just shoot them down out of
the sky like they're nothing. Why can't, what's
the matter with you people in the Air Force?
General Arnold was really in the spot. Here was an
expert back. You know, been flying, had two,
practically double A's. So he wants them the
harshest amount. So he asked, and so I just built my
guts right there, and I stood up and just let them
have it like I'm telling you right now. And I said,
there's not a damn thing wrong with the P-40. I
said, people don't know how to fight. I said,
there's a certain way you've got to fight it. Boy,
these gentlemen stand there with their mouths
open. And I said, it's a matter of tactics. I said,
in some ways, the Japanese zero is superior to our
airplane. But I said, in other ways, it won't match
it. And then I explained the whole situation. What
did you say? Well, the P-40 is structurally, we
always build a terrific airplane. The P-40
structurally was far superior to the zero. The
zero was a tin can compared to a heavy steel, if you
will, airplane. We could out-dive it. but we could
not out-turn it. The top speed of them were about
equal. At altitude, the jet airplane, around
20,000 feet to zero, was probably superior to the
P-40. At any altitude, it would out-turn the P-40,
easily, out-climb it, out-maneuver it. You just
could not maneuver it. But the P-40, you could put
it straight down a dive and never worry about the
tail coming off. It'd get cockeyed on you because
of the propeller. Turk torsion, but it would leave
the Zero away and he couldn't, his terminal speed
was, you know, slower than if he'd fought him.
Pretty soon he was out of gunnery range. All he had
to do was dive away, go out and climb back up and use a
tactic that Chennault told us. And that's the way
we took care of the Zero. And that's what you told
Half Iron? Yeah, and I told the story and it, you
know, I summarized things. Strictly tactics. And
I said, there's nothing in the world wrong with the
Peacock. I'd go back and water it right now. And, oh
boy, he took a death tear. Well, I made friends with
the old man, obviously. But, again, he was sorry,
and I left very, very, very sad. Oh, what did the
other eight generals that were standing around
say? Oh, they just listened. They didn't say
anything? No. Oh, a few, they'd come up and answer a
few questions. Well, you know, what's your,
what's the max speed you think of the Zero? What do
you think of the Jap pilot? Those types of
questions. It'd be typical. And what'd you answer
to the Japanese pilot question? Well, the
Japanese pilot was a, in my opinion, was a
mechanical type guy. He didn't have the, this is
one that I met in combat. Why they flew their
formation the way they did, which was absolutely
asinine, I'll never know, like a play hive on
airplanes. They stuck to 18,000 feet. Their
tactics were stereotyped. We knew exactly what
they were going to do each time they came over. They
didn't bury them. The Navy pilot was far superior
to the Army pilot, definitely. Far superior.
That's the reason they bring them into
hand-counted fine campaign. They're going to
eliminate us. Had we fought zeroes all the time,
Initially, I didn't start. I think we would have
had a little bit tougher time. Sure. I still think
we would have
prevailed. The primary question was oriented to
the P-40 versus the Zero, and that's what the old
man was. In other words, they were trying to get the
old man to buy everything like a Zero. Well, he,
General Oren, wasn't for it, and his generals
weren't for it, but they needed backup. Yeah. They
wanted an expert's opinion on this, and then take
it to Congress. And look what came out of the P-40,
the P-51, one of the greatest airplanes we ever
built. Mustang, you know? Yeah. And then the old
iron-gutted jug, we called it, the P-47, you know,
that great big thing. It had the, when you turn that
thing into a power dive, you never worry about it
coming to pieces. Run through an orange grove on a
landing, you know, belly up, it never hurts you.
And so, how long were you with General Arno? I
wasn't in there long in about 45 minutes. Thank
you. Turned around and left. Went back. Then I went
home. Do you know what the date of this meeting was?
That's not my diary. My diary ended when I landed in
Miami. August the 17th. It must have been the
latter part of August. I can't I don't remember,
and I don't think I'm recording. Last of August,
1942. Last of August, 1942. Okay. And subsequent
to that, then, see, I was disappointed, and I had
failed in one of my missions. I had made enough
money to come back and buy a house for my mom and dad.
I did that. How much money did you make? Oh, I came
back with more than $10,000 in my bank. Wow. With
more than $15,000. More than $15,000? Boy, that's
a lot of money for them, isn't it? Yeah. And none of
that was gambling. I didn't gamble. No, that was
just combat pay. Combat pay and travel pay, extra
pay for staying over longer, and transportation
pay, some transportation expense pay that I
didn't use. But at any rate, I achieved two of my
objectives. I got the combat experience. Yeah. I
have my mother and father put them in a home, which
is better than they've been used to, which I felt
great about. But third one, I didn't get the
regular permission. But I still had my blood. You
still had your what? I had it in my blood, the
military. I started to work for TWA and worked for
about 16 days and decided it wasn't for me and
walked in and told Jack Person, the personnel
manager, In the gravity point hangar there at
National Air Force. Look, I'm sorry. I just, I
don't have it in me. I've got to go back to the Air
Force. And he took one look at me and says, I
understand perfectly. I don't blame you a bit. He
said, you can go right ahead. He said,
furthermore, we'll pay you for the 16 days that
you've just been taking a physical examination
for us. He says, I'm proud of you. So I walked across
to Were you flying during that time? No, I was just
being, for TWA? No, I was just, 16 days, filling out
forms and taking a physical exam. They gave me a
complete physical. Okay, so then you went back
to... At that time, I don't, I have, I'm not sure
whether it was in the Pentagon, but then whether it
was finished or not. It seemed like I went over to
the Pentagon. I went back in the Air Force, or
wherever it was. The personnel told them I'm going
to go back to service. Of course, they immediately
took me back in and put me in. As a reserve officer?
As a reserve officer, second lieutenant. Second
lieutenant? When you could have been a major?
Well, legally, I had to go back that way. They
explained to me that this is, when I went back home
and told them I wanted to go back to service, this is
the way they told me. Well, I said, Yeah, we'll take
you in as a first lieutenant. We have to do this
reserve. I think it's October the 14th, 1942.
Okay. And that's when my active duty started
again. Okay. And then in one week, they promoted me
to a captain. Another week, I was promoted to a
major. Another week, I was promoted to a
lieutenant colonel. I stayed there about two or
three months in the Pentagon. Of course, in the
meantime, I'd come back to Dallas in August and got
married to Dorn on the 14th of August, 19. Okay,
before we get into this part of your career, which
starts October 1942, there are a couple of
questions, just a couple more questions I want to
ask about the Flying Tigers. One, you landed a lot
of RAF bases, Royal Air Force bases. And I was
wondering about the relationship between the
British maintenance men, the base captains, the
fliers, and the American Flying Tigers. How'd you
get along with them? Well, tremendous. Matter of
fact, one RAF
pilot, no, he was an administrative officer, he
actually left the RAF in Rangoon And in effect,
just told him to go to hell. He went up into Kunming,
China with us and stayed with us until we
disbanded. And I don't know what ever happened to
that man, but he never, as far as I know, he never
went back to the RAF. Eventually, I sort of lost
track of him. I think his name was Davis. I don't
know what happened to him. Why did he do that? He
wasn't getting the job back? He loved us. He loved
us. He wanted to stay with us. He thought we were
without a doubt the best. He thought we were gods,
superhumans. He thought we were the greatest
outfit in the world. The RAF pilots that I met, most
of them, the majority of them by far, I had a great
respect for. I never will forget old William
Commander Carey, a terrific guy. He thought the
world and all of us. You know, we were the only ones.
that were really making any progress or could, you
know, just knock the Japs off at will. We were the
only bright spot in the entire world against the
Japanese Air Force. Against Japan. Yeah. And
until, you know, Doolittle, Major Ray, and
incidentally Doolittle folks came back. We met
several of them coming back to China with us. Oh,
wow. You had to tell me about that. I talked to
several of them. But we were the only bright spot on
the horizon then. The old...
And so the few of the bomber pilots I didn't
particularly care about. I had a lot of service
with the RAF in subsequent times, you know. And did
they go out on you? Oh boy, they'd go in their
hurricane just like we would, and eager to go as we
were. And that hurricane was a sorry, it was a sorry
airplane, the P-40. And they lost a lot of people
because they didn't have the benefit of our
tactics and Chenault's construction. They lost
they just lost practically everything in
Singapore and wherever they were. They lost a lot
of people. But the, no telling how many missions
Carrie had, Wing Commander Carrie had been on, and
he'd get, Bob Neal was one of his favorites, they
came very close, and of course I'd already known
Bob, and we'd get together at night and get on the
drinking spree sometime. Terrific guy. We got
along great together. So they shared Are you,
whenever you, when you were over there, you shared
food and supplies? They actually, outside of
China, if it wasn't for the RAF and their support,
we couldn't have gotten home. We depend on them.
And apparently the Chinese who lent leaves in the
United States and Britain had come to this
agreement that in Burma, you know, they'd support
us as well. And that's the reason we used their air
bases. And we would go down to send General
Chenault's airplane down to Singapore before it
was taken to get some maybe tires from them. We'd be
out of tires, you know. The tires for their
particular airplanes, that's how I think it flew
to Buffalo with 50 people on it. We used their
oxygen. We used their mess facilities. We got
along great with them. The airmen. particularly
got along greatly. The airmen got along much, much
better with them than they did with the United
States Air Force types that began to come over
there. Why? Oh, well, the airmen were the NCOs,
particularly the key ones. Not only the Air Force,
but the Navy, Marines, and Air Force. All of them,
they had more of a reason, I think, to get out of the
services maybe than The officers, they were more
griped, I think, at the service. So you had a chance
to make more money. And we had some Mavericks in
the, many more Maverick types in the so-called
enlisted types, airmen, than we did in the Air
Force. We had a few 8-ball, I mean in the pilots. We
had a few 8-ball officer types in the pilots. Now,
competence, I'm not telling them competence.
These airmen were fantastic. They were terrific.
But some of them did carry a chip on their shoulder.
Against the Army Air Force. Well, Navy, too, and
Marine. Whenever they'd catch a, you know, during
the days when ATC began to ferry supplies up into
China, you know, a lot of parts of our one year,
April up through July, we'd meet some of the Air
Force officers. Particularly the higher ranking
ones, colonels and brigadier general types, you
know. The airmen get a few drinks in there, run to
their bell, and they were, they didn't sober. Oh,
really? And I, of course, I didn't like to see that.
I felt a little ashamed of that. But, you know, in
some cases, maybe they had a reason, because,
well, I don't know. It was my observation that
generally the Air Force types, Navy types, and
what few Marine Corps types, you know, that came
over there that were real gentlemen and knew what
they were doing and knew the situation, they
didn't have trouble. But Prince Tex Handler had
the wrong idea when he tried to recruit them. Oh,
yeah. Now, here's a question about the airmen.
What? Here's a question about the airmen. When
Chennault changed or was back in, I guess,
commission back in the Air Force, what happened to
the airmen? Well, the airmen came home, too. Oh,
they did, huh? See, of course, now you say when they
come home, they were subject to induction and
prescription and, I'm sure, come back to service.
I can't remember exactly how many. You were too,
weren't you? Right. Technically? Right. But see,
had I gone to work for airlines, they wouldn't pay.
See, that would be a, what do you call it, exempted
job. Well, the airmen came back and sought the same
types of jobs, like with the aircraft industry,
with airlines. A lot of them went with airlines.
Many of them went with airlines. And, you know, the
pilots, like crew chiefs, take a crew chief and
they'd talk. They put in there two bits for crew
teeth to go to work for there, and the airlines
needed them. Sure. Did Chennault try to talk them
into staying? He treated them the same way he did
the politics. He said, I can sure use you, but you
do, you've earned it. You do what you want to do. If
you want to go home, I don't know where to get you.
And most of them went home, too. Yeah. And most of
them had to go by boat. It took them a long time to get
home.
What happened to the others? Out of your entire
Flying Tiger group in July, at the end, how many
were there left, and how many decided to stay with
Chenault, and how many decided to go home?
At the date of disbandment on July 4th, actually,
July the 20th, 16 days after, you know, he had some
of us stay out. Let's say on the 20th of July, all of
us went home except, if I remember correctly, I
think there were five or six pilots, five or six Air
Force pilots that decided to stay over. Well, no,
Tex Hill was like the Navy. Five or six pilots
decided to stay over and go into the Air Force,
right on the spot. And Airman, I don't really
recall, and I'm not even sure it's in my diary book
there, or in my diary. So five or six pilots out of
how many? I'd say out of... That were left on the 4th
of July.
I'm guessing, I'd say four or five out of about, at
that time,
40, 45, see a lot of them had already gone home. Some
of the pilots went home just before July 4th. They
just had it. Well, they had it, yeah, and they knew
they were good. And the old man people, they were in
Kunming not doing a thing. He didn't actually have
enough airplanes for him to fly. Oh, no kidding. Or
enough anything for the airmen to do. Kunming was
rapidly becoming nothing but a sort of a air
transport stopped. The Japanese weren't raising
a place anymore. So by May of 42, the Flying Tigers
were beginning to disband.
I'd say as early as June. Maybe late May, yeah.
Okay, okay. And your original, what did you say you
had? My original plan was to have 100 airplanes and
100 pilots, and a total of 250 people.
And how many did you ever have full-strength, do
you think? No, we never did have full-strength
pilots. No, I know, but approximately how many did
you ever have? I think probably 65. The last
contingent was about the same as mine, around 35.
Maybe 70. Okay,
and all... but five decided to go, four or five
decided to go home. Yeah. Now, did you find that
unusual? That all, that no one wanted to stay and
continue the war effort? No, I didn't. As a matter
of fact,
Tex Hill was ex-Navy. Tex was actually born in
China. His missionary parents. He's a Texan boy.
You've probably heard of him. He stayed over. Bill
Martin, a Texacana boy. No, he went back over. Mack
McCormick? I forget his name. I can't remember his
name. He was an Air Force fighter jockey. I
think... I don't know. It's hard. I've asked
myself that question. Why did they stay? Tex
Hill is a He's an Orient. He loves the Orient. Like I
say, he was born and raised over there. As a matter
of fact, Tex still represents certain agencies in
the Far East today. He spent a lot of time in Taiwan,
Japan, and the Far East. But the other guys, as a
matter of fact, two out of those five I think were
killed I don't
know. Everybody was just eager to get home now. Oh
yeah, by far a majority.
Were you sort of sad? Tired, combat weary. I
think really, in my opinion, I'm convinced that
Texas Amherst's approach to recruit us was by far
the greatest factor for his policy.
And I know had the Air Force, you know it still
hasn't come around, I think 47 they did something,
the act of 47 on the defense department, that's
when I got my regular commission, 1947. So I
ultimately achieved that too. But I had the Air
Force, you know, said, well, look, we'll get an
acronym where we can give. You guys have earned it
in your combat duty. Although you left the
service,
we'll get you ready. I think, I bet you there could
have been as many as 25 or 30, let's say. I would say
25 or 30. And a lot of the airmen, I think, see, You
know, an airman becomes close camaraderie
between a lot of the airmen and the pilots over
there. We're a pilot state. I'm sure you can talk to
airmen in the state. A lot of them in the state. But
just like anything, it's like fire. It starts
spreading. It keeps spreading like more and more.
As the river gets around, I'm going home. Gee, if
you go home, I'll go home. Something like that.
Sure. Chain effect. Okay.
Okay. Now, tell me about Doolittle. All I know
about the Doolittle is, of course, we heard about
it on the radio. Was it July of 42? June of 42? It had
to be early in July. Was it April? Maybe it was
April. April, I think. Because, matter of fact, we
were still at Kunming when I met two of the pilots At
the hostel one night, they had trickled down
through the underground. I mean, Chinese picked
them up, got them through the line. Some of them
went down the line. A lot of them went down the line.
Japanese line. Chinese bugged them through the
line. Basically, going down to Kunming, where air
transport command terminal is, before they get
on. And I met a couple of them there. I'm pretty sure
it was around April. I'm almost sure it was April.
And of course, they told a story, the Chinese. I
guess the Chinese still are super spies, in my
opinion. Of course, Japanese are too, but I don't
think he meant Chinese.
I don't know much about that except what I read
later on. Did they tell you any of their
experiences when they were flying over Tokyo? Did
they tell you this story? Well, I can't remember. I
remember, obviously, you know, we talked about
it. And he told us...
I think the subject did come up about the fact that
he said, well, I can't talk too much about it. I
think that, you know, the old story of keeping
quiet about things. I think that came up once, but
after a few drinks, you know, the bar after dinner,
they'd tell us a little bit about it. I think most of
what I know, though, is what I've read since And
also I knew one of the Air Force boys who
participated in the flight of Colonel real well, I
forget his name, I served with him in the act. Did
you know Doolittle? I've met him, matter of fact
we've had him at our reunion a couple of times,
yeah. But you met him later on, you didn't even
know. No, I never did meet him when he came. Okay.
Well, that sounds like this is a really
fascinating part of your life. What was the
entire, overall, looking back 40 years later,
what do you think the impact of the Flying Tigers,
what was the impact that the Flying Tigers had on
your life and your career?
Well, I think perhaps it...
I think it... served several purposes, one of
which it seemed as though I had achieved some of my
objectives. Sure. Two out of three. Yeah. Plus,
not only that, but I had made money. I had become a
hero. I was proud of what I'd done. And, you know,
the American Federation album, there's a lot of
other books. I was 19...
When I came home in Dallas, I was given the...
Dallas Chamber of Commerce award for the
outstanding young man, the outstanding,
the outstanding Texan in the Junior Chamber of
Commerce in 1942 in Dallas, and that was quite an
honor.
I guess I bask in the glory and the heroism People
wanted me to have a place. I got tired of that. You
know, when the
so-called, what are prisoners in Iran, Tehran?
You know, when they were freed. Hostages.
Hostages. When they were freed and came home and
you began to read stories, they were tired. I went
through the same thing. I wanted to be left alone. I
had
some... very fine people who had their jobs, you
know, raising money for war bonds and so forth,
wanted to participate, and I was tired of it all. I
got quite angry when I wasn't participating, but I
wasn't nasty about it. I couldn't do as many as they
wanted me to every single day. I wanted to rest, and
I was tired. And I wanted to do some thinking. Just
exactly like those hospitals. I often look at...
Well, so many times I watched those hostages in the
news media after them. And I thought, oh, what I
could tell a news reporter. What I could tell a news
reporter. But they got their job to do. I'm proud of
what I did. The experience was worth millions and
millions of dollars. I think I would do it again.
I've seen this happen before in the world. I
understand now about,
for instance, this is what Cuba's doing, various
places, as what do you call them, as a henchman of
Russia, all over the world. Only there, this is
more, it's not exactly like that one, but I don't
understand. What do you mean, this is what Q was
talking about? Russia is using- Oh, I was asking
about the impact, remember? We were talking
about- Yeah, I got what you said. Yeah, let's stay
on the subject. We have enough to talk about,
believe me. But I was wondering about the impact
that being in the Flying Tigers had on your life,
and you said you accomplished those things. You
also came back the hero. Was there any impact on
your future career? Did it help you in the service?
Was it an impetus for a generalship eventually?
Oh, yes, no doubt. The record I had, no doubt, was it
pushed me to lieutenant colonel right away in just
two weeks. And immediately this had quite an
impact on the, immediately almost, the
assignment as a pilot and aide. I've asked a
Harriman to Russia.
Just came down to have Barnum. General Peabody at
the Air Force School of Applied Tactics where I was
teaching credit tactics at that time. So you got to
meet, you got to advance professionally and you
got to meet Harriman. Oh yeah. One thing led to
another. Sure, help your career. Renown, if you
will. Medals. which I'm proud of, particularly
that British DSC, that one of three of us in ABG was
given British Distinguished Lion Cross. And if
you'll notice, I don't have a single American
combat record. I did all my combat
in effect in China, and I have Chinese combat
decorations and a British Distinguished Lion
Cross. The top one there, the Air Force
Distinguished Service medal in service. So, this
being part of the Flying Tigers and that decision-
Oh, it contributed. You bet it did.
One reason they assigned me to the United States
Air Force School of Applied Tactics in Orlando, it
was a school where we taught actual combat
tactics. We still learn upon it down there.
Teaching actual combat tactics. And I wrote
manuals from my experience. They're still in use,
I'm sure. And so, Hap Arnold saw a place for you
because of your speaking out when you met him in
that meeting. I often think that And I'll get to
that story later on. That's an interesting one you
want to hear. I think Hap Gorno remembered me. This
was, let me see, that was in August of 42, and this
was in about
a year later, August 43. Matter of fact, I know he
remembered me because it said he came up about
Chenault. And that probably I think he probably
admired my aggressive attitude in my career, I
mean my combat experience, which is one thing he
wanted. He wanted a man to go to Russia and talk to
Red Army Air Force officers that had experience in
fighting. He could talk, you know,
authoritatively, not from bombers, fighters.
Okay, so the Flying Tigers helped you in that? You
never, did you ever regret the decision that you
decided to quit the Air Force and go on a flying
tour? Not one bit, I did. As a matter of fact,
sometimes I think I'm just lucky that Gilboa
Grover knew I wanted great information and
thought it might be a good idea to call me and let me
know. Otherwise, I don't know how I would have
learned about it. No, I don't regret that at all.
The experiences that I had as
a person,
they had their imprint, probably too, on what's
right and what's wrong, what's dangerous, what's
not dangerous. I matured an awful lot in one year of
combat. I think anybody does. I matured an awful
lot.
It definitely had a profound effect, I think, on my
thinking, my
advancement, my professional career. I was a
professional far forehead of a lot of my buddies
and cohorts. Okay, well, I think this is a good
place to stop, and I want to start. Yeah, good.
the second interview with General Bond and today
is the 22nd, July 1981 and we were at the impact of
the Flying Tigers on your life and we had finished
that and you told how you got out of the Flying
Tigers and came back to the United States. From
October of 1942 to June of 1943 you were commander
of the 81st Fighter Squadron in Orlando, Florida
as a Lieutenant And you tell me about that
assignment.
That was at the Air Force School of Applied
Tactics. And it was an organization where combat
experienced people like myself had key
positions. And the pilots themselves in the
organization were combat experienced pilots to
the extent they could get them at that stage of the
war. And we brought cadres of, let's say, a new
fighter organization, the wing commander, the
group commander, and the squadron commander, and
probably his flight leaders, where we would
actually fly with them and document them in
specifically combat tactics of fighter units and
fighter aircraft. That was the whole purpose of
the organization, my job. And it was interesting.
We killed a lot of pilots down there because we flew
realistic missions. Matter of fact, one of the
Flying Tiger buddies that was in my squadron was
killed. No kidding. How? We were running some
tactics.